System API for threshold ECDSA (#6)
dfinity/interface-spec: spec/index.adoc

This method takes no input and returns 32 pseudo-random bytes to the caller. The return value is unknown to any part of the IC at time of the submission of this call. A new return value is generated for each call to this method.

[#ic-get_ecdsa_public_key]
=== IC method `get_ecdsa_public_key`

> This method returns the threshold ECDSA public key for the given canister using the given derivation path. If the `canister_id` is unspecified, it will default to the canister id of the caller.

Reviewer: It should be transparent to the canister whether this is a threshold key.

```suggestion
This method returns the ECDSA public key for the given canister using the given derivation path. If the `canister_id` is unspecified, it will default to the canister id of the caller.
```

The `derivation_path` is a vector of variable length byte strings.
For https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0032.mediawiki[BIP-0032] compatibility, each byte string (`blob`) must be a 4-byte big-endian encoding of an unsigned integer less than 2^31^ (non-hardened).

> The only supported `key_id` value at the moment is `"secp256k1"`.

Author: Thanks! Suggestion has been applied

> The return result also contains a `chain_code` which can be used for key derivation purpose if needed.

Reviewer 2: nit: should this be "purposes" (rather than "purpose")?

> The return result also contains a `chain_code` which can be used for key derivation purpose if needed.

Reviewer: We should specify the encoding of the public key. I suggested it here, but we can also put it at the beginning.

```suggestion
The return result is an extended public key consisting of an ECDSA `public_key`, encoded in https://www.secg.org/sec2-v2.pdf[SEC1] compressed form, and a `chain_code`, which can be used to deterministically derive child keys of the `public_key`.
```

> This call requires that the ECDSA feature is enabled and working properly, and the `canister_id` meets the requirement of a canister id.

Reviewer 3: "ECDSA feature is enabled and working properly" -> "ECDSA feature is enabled" (everywhere)

> Otherwise it will be rejected.

Reviewer: I wonder if we should really make this clarification, or just defer the publication of the spec to when the feature is enabled.

Reviewer 4: If this is supposed to be _temporal_, then indeed we should take care using the versioning of the interface spec. (Each replica used on a given subnet implements some specified version of the interface spec.) If it's about being enabled on a subnet (so we'd switch the feature on and off per subnet), then I think the comment is appropriate. Do we plan the latter (except for using different versions during the roll-out)?

[#ic-sign_with_ecdsa]
=== IC method `sign_with_ecdsa`

This method returns a new threshold ECDSA signature of the given `message_hash` that can be separately verified against a derived ECDSA public key.
This public key can be obtained by calling `get_ecdsa_public_key` with the caller's `canister_id`, and the same `derivation_path` and `key_id` used here.

> This call requires that the ECDSA feature is enabled and working properly, the caller is a canister, and `message_hash` is of 32-bytes long.

Reviewer 2: nit: I guess this should either be "is 32 bytes long" (i.e., without "of" and "-") or "is a 32-byte `blob`"?

> This call requires that the ECDSA feature is enabled and working properly, the caller is a canister, and `message_hash` is of 32-bytes long.

Reviewer: This restriction applies to "secp256k1" (and possibly other future curves), so maybe it make sense to add this clarification

Otherwise it will be rejected.

> 

Reviewer: We should also specify the encoding of the signatures. E.g. `The signatures are encoded as the concatenation of the 32-byte big endian encodings of the two values r and s`. To be precise the 32 bytes are again specific to `secp256k1`. So maybe we can make the clarification that we only support this id for now, so we don't have to repeat the clarification for the hash and the output format. 

Otherwise we can rephrase the above with something like. `The signatures are encoded as the concatenation of the https://www.secg.org/sec2-v2.pdf[SEC1] encodings of the two values r and s. For key_id="secp256k1", this corresponds to 32-byte big-endian encoding`.

For `key_id="secp256k1"`, the public key is derived using a generalization of BIP32 (see https://ia.cr/2021/1330[ia.cr/2021/1330, Appendix D]). To derive (non-hardened) https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0032.mediawiki[BIP-0032]-compatible public keys, each byte string (`blob`) in the `derivation_path` must be a 4-byte big-endian encoding of an unsigned integer less than 2^31^.

The return result is an extended public key consisting of an ECDSA `public_key`, encoded in https://www.secg.org/sec2-v2.pdf[SEC1] compressed form, and a `chain_code`, which can be used to deterministically derive child keys of the `public_key`.

This call requires that the ECDSA feature is enabled, and the `canister_id` meets the requirement of a canister id.
Otherwise it will be rejected.

[#ic-sign_with_ecdsa]
=== IC method `sign_with_ecdsa`

This method returns a new https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/FIPS/NIST.FIPS.186-4.pdf[ECDSA] signature of the given `message_hash` that can be separately verified against a derived ECDSA public key.
This public key can be obtained by calling `get_ecdsa_public_key` with the caller's `canister_id`, and the same `derivation_path` and `key_id` used here.

> The signatures are encoded as the concatenation of the https://www.secg.org/sec2-v2.pdf[SEC1] encodings of the two values r and s. For key_id="secp256k1", this corresponds to 32-byte big-endian encoding.

Reviewer 5: Just the raise the issue:

The encoding described above is what we are currently using, and it is fairly common.

However many applications including both Bitcoin and X.509 use another representation which uses DER.

It is not terribly difficult to convert from one format to another, but it might be surprising for some users that this is required.

Should we switch to the DER encoding or stay with the current approach?

Author: As discussed on slack, we'll stick to the current encoding instead of DER.
